- [Narrator] Quarkus supports a rich set
of web-based traffic.
Let's start with the basics.
HTTP is a relatively easy protocol to implement
within Quarkus itself.
And Quarkus is an implementation of Eclipse MicroProfile
which leverages Jakarta EE formerly J2EE implementations.
As such, HTTP traffic,
specifically REST implementations,
are based on JAX-RS.
In Quarkus, the framework handles the server mappings.
You don't need to interact
with the application server at all
or the servlet container,
everything is wired for you.
With Quarkus Web, just like Java,
it all goes through classes and methods.
With Quarkus, you also get a wonderful tool
called REST Client.
This framework provides built-in support
for making RESTful web calls
via the MicroProfile Rest Client.
This leads to a dramatic simplification
of the web boundary between two services.
The Client handles all the connection settings,
setup and tear down for you,
so you can focus on just making the call
and working with the data that you get back.
This leads to a major reduction in boilerplate code
to make web calls and marshal the JSON,
and turn it into Java objects.
Newer to the role of web service development,
GraphQL is an up and coming technology released by Facebook.
Quarkus offers first-class support for GraphQL services
through the MicroProfile implementation.
It leverages the SmallRye extension
to provide a GraphQL implementation,
again based on MicroProfile.
As one might expect with GraphQL,
there is full support for queries,
but there's also support for mutations.
You can also consume GraphQL services,
though that's beyond the scope of this course,
from Quarkus via GraphQL client-side offering.